README.md, before:

# Awesome Paid Open Source [![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)

> Collection of links around paid/sustainable open source development

## Contributing

Feel free to add links via PRs and file issues to start discussions.

## Table of Contents

- [Perspectives](#perspectives)
- [Donation Sites](#donation-sites)
- [Open Source Grants](#open-source-grants)
- [Payment Platforms](#payment-platforms)
- [Profit-sharing Platforms](#profit-sharing-platforms)
- [Open Source Software Foundations](#open-source-software-foundations)
- [Example Projects](#example-projects)
- [Sponsored Projects](#sponsored-projects)
- [Relevant Licenses](#relevant-licenses)
- [Reference](#reference)
- [FAQ and Key Terms](#faq-and-key-terms)

### Perspectives

- [Open Source Ain't Free](https://vimeo.com/53373707) by David DeSandro
- [Money and Open Source](https://medium.com/open-source-life/money-and-open-source-d44a1953749c#.wim9wlhwx) by Isaac Schleuter
- [Vue.js author now works on it full time thanks to donations](https://twitter.com/vuejs/status/750560489462259712) by Evan You
- [Fine Uploader attempted a FOSS-friendly commercial license](https://medium.com/@RayNicholus/disrupting-open-source-the-story-of-fine-uploader-80160eb557d9#.grwnuak60) by Ray Nicholus
- [OptaPlanner gets picked up by Red Hat](http://www.optaplanner.org/blog/2016/08/07/ADecadeOfOptaPlanner.html) by Geoffrey De Smet
- [Open Source Exploitation](http://supportedsource.org/blog/open-source-exploitation-and-burnout) by SupportedSource
- [Redis author sponsored by Pivotal labs](http://antirez.com/news/91) by Antirez
- [Charging for Open Source](http://www.mikeperham.com/2015/11/23/how-to-charge-for-your-open-source) by Mike Perham (author of Sidekiq)
- [Corporations and OSS do not mix](http://www.coglib.com/~icordasc/blog/2015/11/corporations-and-oss-do-not-mix.html) by Ian Cordasco
- [More Money for Better Open-Source Software](http://marijnhaverbeke.nl/blog/sustainable-maintenance.html) by Marijn Haverbeke
- [Marijn's Sustainable Open Source Fund](https://marijnhaverbeke.nl/fund) by Marijn Haverbeke
- [The Perils of Mixing Open Source and Money](http://david.heinemeierhansson.com/2013/the-perils-of-mixing-open-source-and-money.html) by DHH
- [The Ethics of Unpaid Labor and the OSS Community](https://www.ashedryden.com/blog/the-ethics-of-unpaid-labor-and-the-oss-community#loveplay) by Ashe Dryden
- [Commerce and Open Source](https://opensource.org/faq#category-commerce) by the Open Source Initiative
- [Open Source Work](http://ryanbigg.com/2015/11/open-source-work) by Ryan Bigg
- [Who Pays to Keep OS Software Working?](https://www.thoughtworks.com/mingle/news/2015/04/09/Paying-For-Open-Source.html) by Jen Quraishi
- [Github Issues and Mental Health](http://bumpers.fm/e/audr171motkg00tb32sg) by Dave DeSandro
- [The Path to Full-time Open Source](http://www.mikeperham.com/2014/10/01/the-path-to-full-time-open-source) by Mike Perham
- [A handy guide to financial support for open source](https://github.com/nayafia/lemonade-stand) by Nadia Eghbal
- [Elementary OS Lets Users Decide How Much To Pay](http://blog.elementary.io/post/110645528530/payments). See the comments for sensitivity around messaging.
- [How to Pay for Open Source: Seed Money](http://www.infoworld.com/article/2615419/open-source-software/how-to-pay-for-open-source.html) by InfoWorld
- [Ways to Earn Money Through Open Source](http://programmers.stackexchange.com/a/100706) via StackExchange
- [Open Source Infrastructure](https://storify.com/Lukasaoz/open-source-infrastructure-white-paper) by Cory Benfield
- [The Unseen Labor Behind Our Digital Infrastructure](https://fordfoundcontent.blob.core.windows.net/media/2976/roads-and-bridges-the-unseen-labor-behind-our-digital-infrastructure.pdf) by Nadia Eghbal
- [The Money In Open-Source Software](https://techcrunch.com/2016/02/09/the-money-in-open-source-software/) by Max Schireson at TechCrunch
- [Who Sponsors Drupal Development?](http://buytaert.net/who-sponsors-drupal-development) by Dries Buytaert

### Donation sites

- [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com)
- [BountySource](https://www.bountysource.com)
- [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/opensource)
- [Indiegogo](https://www.indiegogo.com)
- [Pledgie](https://pledgie.com)
- [Flattr](https://flattr.com)
- [Gratipay](https://gratipay.com)
- [Freedom Sponsors](https://freedomsponsors.org)

### Open Source Grants

- [Mozilla grants](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/grants)

### Payment Platforms

- [plasso.co](https://plasso.co)
- [Gumroad](https://gumroad.com)
- [Simple Goods](https://simplegoods.co)
- [Pulley](http://pulleyapp.com)
- [Donorbox](https://donorbox.org)

### Profit-sharing Platforms

- [BountySource Salt](https://salt.bountysource.com)

### Open Source Software Foundations

- [jQuery Foundation](https://jquery.org)
- [The Apache Software Foundation](http://www.apache.org/foundation/how-it-works.html#what)
- [Software Freedom Conservancy](https://sfconservancy.org/members/apply)
- [Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/projects)
- [Open Source Robotics Foundation](http://www.osrfoundation.org)

### Example Projects

> A collection of paid open source projects to use as a reference for your own efforts.

- [Synergy](https://github.com/symless/synergy) (GPL) [charges for downloads](http://symless.com/pricing), but also provides [free access](https://symless.com/purchase/faq).
- [Sidekiq](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/) (LGPLv3) [offers pro and enterprise add-ons](http://sidekiq.org/products/pro), but offers free access for a hobbyist usage level.
- [Greenkeeper](https://github.com/greenkeeperio/greenkeeper) (Apache-2.0) [offers premium individual and organization levels of usage](https://greenkeeper.io/#pricing), but offers free usage for open source projects.
- [npm](https://github.com/npm/npm) (Artistic-2.0) is free to use for all projects, but offers [premium individual and enterprise add-ons](https://www.npmjs.com/pricing).
- [Ember.js](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js) (MIT) is free to use for all projects, but [premium consulting and training services](http://www.tilde.io/ember-consulting/) are provided by the authors.
- [Meteor.js](https://github.com/meteor/meteor) (MIT) is free to use for all projects, but offers a [premium hosting solution](https://www.meteor.com/pricing) for meteor projects.
- [Intern](https://github.com/theintern/intern) (New BSD) is free to use for all projects, but has [premium support](https://www.sitepen.com/support/index.html) offered by SitePen.
- [Docker](https://github.com/docker/docker) (Apache 2.0) is free to use for all projects, but offers [premium hosting and training support](https://www.docker.com/pricing).
- [Tern.js](https://github.com/ternjs/tern) (MIT) is free to use for all projects, but releases language expansion packs via [crowdfunded campaigns](https://www.bountysource.com/issues/1141202-support-es6-features).
- [JW Player](https://www.jwplayer.com) (CC-BY-NC) [charges for streaming video service and ad platform](https://www.jwplayer.com/get-started/)

> These projects are dual-licensed. They require a paid license for commercial or closed-source use, but offer a free license for non-commercial or open-source use.

- [Isotope](http://isotope.metafizzy.co), [Flickity](http://flickity.metafizzy.co), [Packery](http://packery.metafizzy.co) (GPLv3)
- [Sequence.js](http://www.sequencejs.com) (GPLv3)
- [MixItUp](https://mixitup.kunkalabs.com) (CC-BY-NC)
- [Highcharts](http://www.highcharts.com) (CC-BY-NC)
- [Fresco](http://www.frescojs.com), [Tipped](http://www.tippedjs.com), [Strip](http://www.stripjs.com), [Lightview](http://projects.nickstakenburg.com/lightview)

### Sponsored Projects

> These projects are/were sponsored by organizations or donation-based backers.

- [Vue.js](https://github.com/vuejs/vue) is sponsored by donations via [a Patreon campaign](https://www.patreon.com/evanyou).
- [react-boilerplate](https://github.com/mxstbr/react-boilerplate) is sponsored by donations via an [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/react-boilerplate) campaign.
- [Redis](https://github.com/antirez/redis) was sponsored by [Pivotal labs and other backers](http://redis.io/topics/sponsors) and is now sponsored by Redis Labs.
- [Prosemirror](https://github.com/ProseMirror/prosemirror) was sponsored via a [kickstarter-like campaign on Indiegogo](https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/prosemirror#/).
- [Tern.js](https://github.com/ternjs/tern) was sponsored via a [crowdfunded campaign on Indiegogo](https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/tern-intelligent-javascript-editing#/).
- [Ghost](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost) was sponsored via a [kickstarter campaign](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/johnonolan/ghost-just-a-blogging-platform).
- [Angular.js](https://github.com/angular/angular.js) is sponsored by Google.
- [React.js](https://github.com/facebook/react) is sponsored by Facebook.
- [Dojo](https://github.com/dojo/dojo) is sponsored by SitePen under the Dojo Foundation.
- [Fine Uploader](http://fineuploader.com) is sponsored by Widen.
- [Imageflow](https://www.imageflow.io) (APGLv3) [successfully funded development effort on Kickstarter](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/njones/imageflow-respect-the-pixels-a-secure-alt-to-image).
- [Phaser](http://phaser.io) (MIT) is [sponsored on Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/photonstorm).
- [Brunch](http://brunch.io) (MIT) is sponsored by [Hell Yeah](http://hellyeah.is).
- [NeoVim](https://github.com/neovim/neovim) (Apache 2.0) is sponsored by donations via [an ongoing BountySource campaign](https://www.bountysource.com/teams/neovim) and a [successful fundraising effort](https://www.bountysource.com/teams/neovim/fundraiser).
- [Coala](https://github.com/coala-analyzer/coala) (AGPL v3.0) is sponsored by [Appveyor](https://www.appveyor.com).

### Relevant Licenses

> A collection of licenses that may be particularly useful for paid open source projects.

- [Business Source License (BSL)](http://timreview.ca/article/691) is a customizable commercial license with language that defines free vs. commercial use (copy-left), with the ability to switch to a free open source license of your choice after a few years.

### Reference

- [MySQL dual licensing](http://www.mysql.com/about/legal/licensing/oem)
- [Wikipedia: Open source business models](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_models_for_open-source_software#Approaches)
- [Paying the Piper](https://github.com/pybee/paying-the-piper) by PyBee / Russell Keith-Magee
- [Software Licenses in Plain English](https://tldrlegal.com)

### FAQ and Key Terms

#### Dual licensing

Quote from "[Open Hardware Business Models](http://www.osbr.ca/ojs/index.php/osbr/article/view/570/523)"

> The first license is a GPL-like license, which is free but forces users to disclose the source code of any modified version of the original design. The second is a commercial license, which has a fee but allows buyers to conceal the source code of any modified version.

#### Source software foundations

- [About jQuery Foundation](https://github.com/mrjoelkemp/awesome-paid-open-source/issues/2#issuecomment-238752181) by Mike Sherov

## License

[![CC0](http://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/buttons/88x31/svg/cc-zero.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0)

To the extent possible under law, [Joel Kemp](https://twitter.com/mrjoelkemp) has waived all copyright and related or neighboring rights to this work.

Commit message:

Added Equity for Effort to Perspectives section

README.md, after:

# Awesome Paid Open Source [![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)

> Collection of links around paid/sustainable open source development

## Contributing

Feel free to add links via PRs and file issues to start discussions.

## Table of Contents

- [Perspectives](#perspectives)
- [Donation Sites](#donation-sites)
- [Open Source Grants](#open-source-grants)
- [Payment Platforms](#payment-platforms)
- [Profit-sharing Platforms](#profit-sharing-platforms)
- [Open Source Software Foundations](#open-source-software-foundations)
- [Example Projects](#example-projects)
- [Sponsored Projects](#sponsored-projects)
- [Relevant Licenses](#relevant-licenses)
- [Reference](#reference)
- [FAQ and Key Terms](#faq-and-key-terms)

### Perspectives

- [Open Source Ain't Free](https://vimeo.com/53373707) by David DeSandro
- [Money and Open Source](https://medium.com/open-source-life/money-and-open-source-d44a1953749c#.wim9wlhwx) by Isaac Schleuter
- [Vue.js author now works on it full time thanks to donations](https://twitter.com/vuejs/status/750560489462259712) by Evan You
- [Fine Uploader attempted a FOSS-friendly commercial license](https://medium.com/@RayNicholus/disrupting-open-source-the-story-of-fine-uploader-80160eb557d9#.grwnuak60) by Ray Nicholus
- [OptaPlanner gets picked up by Red Hat](http://www.optaplanner.org/blog/2016/08/07/ADecadeOfOptaPlanner.html) by Geoffrey De Smet
- [Open Source Exploitation](http://supportedsource.org/blog/open-source-exploitation-and-burnout) by SupportedSource
- [Redis author sponsored by Pivotal labs](http://antirez.com/news/91) by Antirez
- [Charging for Open Source](http://www.mikeperham.com/2015/11/23/how-to-charge-for-your-open-source) by Mike Perham (author of Sidekiq)
- [Corporations and OSS do not mix](http://www.coglib.com/~icordasc/blog/2015/11/corporations-and-oss-do-not-mix.html) by Ian Cordasco
- [More Money for Better Open-Source Software](http://marijnhaverbeke.nl/blog/sustainable-maintenance.html) by Marijn Haverbeke
- [Marijn's Sustainable Open Source Fund](https://marijnhaverbeke.nl/fund) by Marijn Haverbeke
- [The Perils of Mixing Open Source and Money](http://david.heinemeierhansson.com/2013/the-perils-of-mixing-open-source-and-money.html) by DHH
- [The Ethics of Unpaid Labor and the OSS Community](https://www.ashedryden.com/blog/the-ethics-of-unpaid-labor-and-the-oss-community#loveplay) by Ashe Dryden
- [Commerce and Open Source](https://opensource.org/faq#category-commerce) by the Open Source Initiative
- [Open Source Work](http://ryanbigg.com/2015/11/open-source-work) by Ryan Bigg
- [Who Pays to Keep OS Software Working?](https://www.thoughtworks.com/mingle/news/2015/04/09/Paying-For-Open-Source.html) by Jen Quraishi
- [Github Issues and Mental Health](http://bumpers.fm/e/audr171motkg00tb32sg) by Dave DeSandro
- [The Path to Full-time Open Source](http://www.mikeperham.com/2014/10/01/the-path-to-full-time-open-source) by Mike Perham
- [A handy guide to financial support for open source](https://github.com/nayafia/lemonade-stand) by Nadia Eghbal
- [Elementary OS Lets Users Decide How Much To Pay](http://blog.elementary.io/post/110645528530/payments). See the comments for sensitivity around messaging.
- [How to Pay for Open Source: Seed Money](http://www.infoworld.com/article/2615419/open-source-software/how-to-pay-for-open-source.html) by InfoWorld
- [Ways to Earn Money Through Open Source](http://programmers.stackexchange.com/a/100706) via StackExchange
- [Open Source Infrastructure](https://storify.com/Lukasaoz/open-source-infrastructure-white-paper) by Cory Benfield
- [The Unseen Labor Behind Our Digital Infrastructure](https://fordfoundcontent.blob.core.windows.net/media/2976/roads-and-bridges-the-unseen-labor-behind-our-digital-infrastructure.pdf) by Nadia Eghbal
- [The Money In Open-Source Software](https://techcrunch.com/2016/02/09/the-money-in-open-source-software/) by Max Schireson at TechCrunch
- [Who Sponsors Drupal Development?](http://buytaert.net/who-sponsors-drupal-development) by Dries Buytaert
- [Equity For Effort: Code for Open-Source, Earn Startup Shares](https://focus.parabol.co/equity-for-effort-v2-0-7ca93e0a3968#.yxw9gkg20) by Parabol

### Donation sites

- [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com)
- [BountySource](https://www.bountysource.com)
- [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/opensource)
- [Indiegogo](https://www.indiegogo.com)
- [Pledgie](https://pledgie.com)
- [Flattr](https://flattr.com)
- [Gratipay](https://gratipay.com)
- [Freedom Sponsors](https://freedomsponsors.org)

### Open Source Grants

- [Mozilla grants](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/grants)

### Payment Platforms

- [plasso.co](https://plasso.co)
- [Gumroad](https://gumroad.com)
- [Simple Goods](https://simplegoods.co)
- [Pulley](http://pulleyapp.com)
- [Donorbox](https://donorbox.org)

### Profit-sharing Platforms

- [BountySource Salt](https://salt.bountysource.com)

### Open Source Software Foundations

- [jQuery Foundation](https://jquery.org)
- [The Apache Software Foundation](http://www.apache.org/foundation/how-it-works.html#what)
- [Software Freedom Conservancy](https://sfconservancy.org/members/apply)
- [Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/projects)
- [Open Source Robotics Foundation](http://www.osrfoundation.org)

### Example Projects

> A collection of paid open source projects to use as a reference for your own efforts.

- [Synergy](https://github.com/symless/synergy) (GPL) [charges for downloads](http://symless.com/pricing), but also provides [free access](https://symless.com/purchase/faq).
- [Sidekiq](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/) (LGPLv3) [offers pro and enterprise add-ons](http://sidekiq.org/products/pro), but offers free access for a hobbyist usage level.
- [Greenkeeper](https://github.com/greenkeeperio/greenkeeper) (Apache-2.0) [offers premium individual and organization levels of usage](https://greenkeeper.io/#pricing), but offers free usage for open source projects.
- [npm](https://github.com/npm/npm) (Artistic-2.0) is free to use for all projects, but offers [premium individual and enterprise add-ons](https://www.npmjs.com/pricing).
- [Ember.js](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js) (MIT) is free to use for all projects, but [premium consulting and training services](http://www.tilde.io/ember-consulting/) are provided by the authors.
- [Meteor.js](https://github.com/meteor/meteor) (MIT) is free to use for all projects, but offers a [premium hosting solution](https://www.meteor.com/pricing) for meteor projects.
- [Intern](https://github.com/theintern/intern) (New BSD) is free to use for all projects, but has [premium support](https://www.sitepen.com/support/index.html) offered by SitePen.
- [Docker](https://github.com/docker/docker) (Apache 2.0) is free to use for all projects, but offers [premium hosting and training support](https://www.docker.com/pricing).
- [Tern.js](https://github.com/ternjs/tern) (MIT) is free to use for all projects, but releases language expansion packs via [crowdfunded campaigns](https://www.bountysource.com/issues/1141202-support-es6-features).
- [JW Player](https://www.jwplayer.com) (CC-BY-NC) [charges for streaming video service and ad platform](https://www.jwplayer.com/get-started/)

> These projects are dual-licensed. They require a paid license for commercial or closed-source use, but offer a free license for non-commercial or open-source use.

- [Isotope](http://isotope.metafizzy.co), [Flickity](http://flickity.metafizzy.co), [Packery](http://packery.metafizzy.co) (GPLv3)
- [Sequence.js](http://www.sequencejs.com) (GPLv3)
- [MixItUp](https://mixitup.kunkalabs.com) (CC-BY-NC)
- [Highcharts](http://www.highcharts.com) (CC-BY-NC)
- [Fresco](http://www.frescojs.com), [Tipped](http://www.tippedjs.com), [Strip](http://www.stripjs.com), [Lightview](http://projects.nickstakenburg.com/lightview)

### Sponsored Projects

> These projects are/were sponsored by organizations or donation-based backers.

- [Vue.js](https://github.com/vuejs/vue) is sponsored by donations via [a Patreon campaign](https://www.patreon.com/evanyou).
- [react-boilerplate](https://github.com/mxstbr/react-boilerplate) is sponsored by donations via an [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/react-boilerplate) campaign.
- [Redis](https://github.com/antirez/redis) was sponsored by [Pivotal labs and other backers](http://redis.io/topics/sponsors) and is now sponsored by Redis Labs.
- [Prosemirror](https://github.com/ProseMirror/prosemirror) was sponsored via a [kickstarter-like campaign on Indiegogo](https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/prosemirror#/).
- [Tern.js](https://github.com/ternjs/tern) was sponsored via a [crowdfunded campaign on Indiegogo](https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/tern-intelligent-javascript-editing#/).
- [Ghost](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost) was sponsored via a [kickstarter campaign](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/johnonolan/ghost-just-a-blogging-platform).
- [Angular.js](https://github.com/angular/angular.js) is sponsored by Google.
- [React.js](https://github.com/facebook/react) is sponsored by Facebook.
- [Dojo](https://github.com/dojo/dojo) is sponsored by SitePen under the Dojo Foundation.
- [Fine Uploader](http://fineuploader.com) is sponsored by Widen.
- [Imageflow](https://www.imageflow.io) (APGLv3) [successfully funded development effort on Kickstarter](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/njones/imageflow-respect-the-pixels-a-secure-alt-to-image).
- [Phaser](http://phaser.io) (MIT) is [sponsored on Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/photonstorm).
- [Brunch](http://brunch.io) (MIT) is sponsored by [Hell Yeah](http://hellyeah.is).
- [NeoVim](https://github.com/neovim/neovim) (Apache 2.0) is sponsored by donations via [an ongoing BountySource campaign](https://www.bountysource.com/teams/neovim) and a [successful fundraising effort](https://www.bountysource.com/teams/neovim/fundraiser).
- [Coala](https://github.com/coala-analyzer/coala) (AGPL v3.0) is sponsored by [Appveyor](https://www.appveyor.com).

### Relevant Licenses

> A collection of licenses that may be particularly useful for paid open source projects.

- [Business Source License (BSL)](http://timreview.ca/article/691) is a customizable commercial license with language that defines free vs. commercial use (copy-left), with the ability to switch to a free open source license of your choice after a few years.

### Reference

- [MySQL dual licensing](http://www.mysql.com/about/legal/licensing/oem)
- [Wikipedia: Open source business models](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_models_for_open-source_software#Approaches)
- [Paying the Piper](https://github.com/pybee/paying-the-piper) by PyBee / Russell Keith-Magee
- [Software Licenses in Plain English](https://tldrlegal.com)

### FAQ and Key Terms

#### Dual licensing

Quote from "[Open Hardware Business Models](http://www.osbr.ca/ojs/index.php/osbr/article/view/570/523)"

> The first license is a GPL-like license, which is free but forces users to disclose the source code of any modified version of the original design. The second is a commercial license, which has a fee but allows buyers to conceal the source code of any modified version.

#### Source software foundations

- [About jQuery Foundation](https://github.com/mrjoelkemp/awesome-paid-open-source/issues/2#issuecomment-238752181) by Mike Sherov

## License

[![CC0](http://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/buttons/88x31/svg/cc-zero.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0)

To the extent possible under law, [Joel Kemp](https://twitter.com/mrjoelkemp) has waived all copyright and related or neighboring rights to this work.
